Out of the south the biplane came winging back toward the camp, a black
speck against the dazzling white of the vast ice-fields that extended
unbroken to the horizon on every side.

It came out of the south, and yet, a hundred miles further back along
the course on which it flew, it could not have proceeded in any
direction except northward. For a hundred miles south lay the south
pole, the goal toward which the Travers Expeditions had been pressing
for the better part of that year.

Not that they could not have reached it sooner. As a matter of fact,
the pole had been crossed and re-crossed, according to the estimate of
Tommy Travers, aviator, and nephew of the old millionaire who stood
fairy uncle to the expedition. But one of the things that was being
sought was the exact site of the pole. Not within a couple of miles or
so, but within the fraction of an inch.

It had something to do with Einstein, and something to do with
terrestrial magnetism, and the variations of the south magnetic pole,
and the reason therefore, and something to do with parallaxes and the
precession of the equinoxes and other things, this search for the pole's
exact location. But all that was principally the affair of the
astronomer of the party. Tommy Travers, who was now evidently on his way
back, didn't give a whoop for Einstein, or any of the rest of the stuff.
He had been enjoying himself after his fashion during a year of
frostbites and hard rations, and he was beginning to anticipate the
delights of the return to Broadway.

Captain Storm, in charge of the expedition, together with the five
others of the advance camp, watched the plane maneuver up to the tents.
She came down neatly on the smooth snow, skidded on her runners like an
expert skater, and came to a stop almost immediately in front of the
marquee.

Tommy Travers leaped out of the enclosed cockpit, which, shut off by
glass from the cabin, was something like the front seat of a limousine.

"Well, Captain, we followed that break for a hundred miles, and there's
no ground cleft, as you expected," he said. "But Jim Dodd and I picked
up something, and Jim seems to have gone crazy."